Hi everyone, let's learn together.
Python identity operators.
Identity operators are used to compare the objects, not the are equal, but they are actually the same
object with the same memory location.
We have two operators is and is not is.
Returns true if both variables are the same object.
Is not.
Returns true if both variables are not the same object.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some examples.
Here we have two lists x and y with the same content.
A third variable, z is assigned to variable x.
Let's execute the code via debugger mode.
The result here it will be true.
Why?
Because z and x are the same object.
X is y.
The result?
It will be false because x and y are different objects.
X equal to y.
The result.
It will be true because equal.
Compare the content of two variables.
Here we have the same content.
The result it will be true.
Like we see here, the difference between equal and is is compare between objects and reference and
equal.
Use it to compare between content of two variables.
Let's continue this example.
X is not z, it will return false.
Why?
Because there are same object.
X is not y.
It will return true because x and y are different objects.
X is not y, it will return true.
Why?
Because x is not the same object as y.
In this code, x is not equal to y.
It will return false because x and y have the same content.
Just remember that is is not the same like equal is used to compare between memory location and object
equal.
Use it to compare between content.
And that's it for this video.